Safety management update - Process (#398)
eclipse-score/process_description: process/process_areas/safety_management/safety_management_concept.rst

..
   # *******************************************************************************
   # Copyright (c) 2025 Contributors to the Eclipse Foundation
   #
   # See the NOTICE file(s) distributed with this work for additional
   # information regarding copyright ownership.
   #
   # This program and the accompanying materials are made available under the
   # terms of the Apache License Version 2.0 which is available at
   # https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
   #
   # SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0
   # *******************************************************************************

Concept
-------

.. doc_concept:: Safety Management Concept
   :id: doc_concept__safety_management_process
   :status: valid

> In this section a concept for the safety management will be discussed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this section a concept for the Safety Management will be discussed.
```

Would appreciate a common style in the complete process description.

Reviewer 2: done

Inputs for this concepts are mainly the requirements of ISO26262 "Part 2: Management of functional safety".

Key concept
^^^^^^^^^^^
The Safety Management Plan establishes a comprehensive strategy for managing all identified safety activities throughout the entire project life cycle.
It ensures that these activities are executed in a systematic, effective, and repeatable manner, providing clear guidance on responsibilities, processes, and control measures.
This approach supports risk mitigation, regulatory compliance, and continuous improvement, enabling the project team to maintain safety standards consistently from initiation to completion.

Inputs
^^^^^^

> #. Stakeholders for the safety management work products?

Reviewer: Would be easier when the headlines are the same as in the index.

#. Who needs which information?
#. Which safety plans do we have?
#. Which other work products of safety management are important?
#. What tooling do we need?

Stakeholders
^^^^^^^^^^^^

#. :need:`Project Lead <rl__project_lead>`

   * planning of development for module and for platform projects

> #. :need:`Safety Manager <rl__safety_manager>`

Reviewer: I would think the Safety Manager is the most important Stakeholder. Also I would recommend to align the bullet point to the workflows / responsibilities they have. Which information`s do they need to do it?

   * main responsible to ensure ISO 26262 compliance in the project
   * role definition in :doc:`/process_areas/safety_management/safety_management_roles`
   * status reporting of safety activities

#. :need:`External Auditor <rl__external_auditor>`

   * Performs independent safety audits and formal document reviews (e.g., safety plans, safety packages, safety analyses).
   * Verifies compliance with defined safety processes and standards.
   * Reports audit results and decides on pass/fail status.

Safety Plans
^^^^^^^^^^^^

> This SW platform project defines two levels of planning: platform and module. There will be one safety plan on platform level and several safety plans on module level (one for each module).

Reviewer: I meant that he missed the safety plans on feature level

> This SW platform project defines two levels of planning: platform and module. There will be one safety plan on platform level and several safety plans on module level (one for each module).

Reviewer: https://github.com/eclipse-score/process_description/pull/398

> This is how we organize our development teams and repositories. Each of these safety plan "creates" one SEooC.

Reviewer 2: No, currently we plan to have one safety plan for every SEooC, i.e. for the platform and for every module. We may in the future merge Feature with Module to a SEooC but that is not finally decided.

> This is how we organize our development teams and repositories. Each of these safety plan "creates" one SEooC.

Reviewer: https://github.com/eclipse-score/process_description/pull/398

> This is how we organize our development teams and repositories. Each of these safety plan "creates" one SEooC.

Reviewer: https://github.com/eclipse-score/process_description/pull/398

The Platform Safety Plan exists only once and is part of the Platform Management Plan.

Safety Management Work Products
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Apart from the safety plans the main work products of safety management are:

* :need:`Safety Manual <wp__platform_safety_manual>` - the safety manual defines the requirements for safe usage or integration of the SW platform (or its individual modules)
* :need:`Formal Document Review Reports <wp__fdr_reports>` - on safety plan, safety package and safety analyses, according to ISO 26262 requirements
* :need:`Safety Package <wp__platform_safety_package>` - the safety package does not contain the safety argumentation. By this the project ensures it does not take over liability for the SW platform (or its individual modules). But it enables the distributors to integrate the SW platform (or its individual modules) in their safety package.

> Safety Management Tooling

Reviewer: I think there a not really additional information's in this chapter. You might delete it.

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

For the safety planning and safety manual a “Docs-as-Code” approach is used and within that approach Id will be used for referencing.

> For the activities planning (who, when) we use a task tracking stystem to create and manage issues, and monitor progress through a project managemnet dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the activities planning (who, when) we use a Issue Tracking System to create and manage issues, and monitor progress through a project managemnet dashboard.
```

..
   # *******************************************************************************
   # Copyright (c) 2025 Contributors to the Eclipse Foundation
   #
   # See the NOTICE file(s) distributed with this work for additional
   # information regarding copyright ownership.
   #
   # This program and the accompanying materials are made available under the
   # terms of the Apache License Version 2.0 which is available at
   # https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
   #
   # SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0
   # *******************************************************************************

Concept
-------

.. doc_concept:: Safety Management Concept
   :id: doc_concept__safety_management_process
   :status: valid

In this section a concept for the safety management will be discussed.
Inputs for this concepts are mainly the requirements of ISO26262 "Part 2: Management of functional safety".

Key concept
^^^^^^^^^^^

> The Safety Management Plan should define the strategy to manage the identified safety activities

Author: Elaborated more on it

in an effective and repeatable way for the project life cycle.

Inputs
^^^^^^

#. Stakeholders for the safety management work products?
#. Who needs which information?
#. Which safety plans do we have?
#. Which other work products of safety management are important?
#. What tooling do we need?

Stakeholders
^^^^^^^^^^^^

#. :need:`Technical Lead <rl__technical_lead>`

   * planning of development for module and for platform projects
   * status reporting of safety activities

#. :need:`Safety Manager <rl__safety_manager>`

>    * main responsible for the safety management work products

Author: Reworded

   * role definition in :doc:`/process_areas/safety_management/safety_management_roles`

#. :need:`External Auditor <rl__external_auditor>`

   * understand activities planning, processes definition and execution

> #. "Distributor" (external role)

Author: As discussed in the Process meeting, I will rework this part and move it to existing roles

   * use the platform in a safe way
   * integrate the platform in his product (distribution) and safety case
   * plan this integration (also in time)
   * qualify the SW platform as part of his product

Safety Plans
^^^^^^^^^^^^

This SW platform project defines two levels of planning: platform and module. There will be one safety plan on platform level and several safety plans on module level (one for each module).
This is how we organize our development teams and repositories. Each of these safety plan "creates" one SEooC.
The Platform Safety Plan exists only once and is part of the Platform Management Plan of S-CORE.

Safety Management Work Products
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Apart from the safety plans the main work products of safety management are:

* :need:`Safety Manual <wp__platform_safety_manual>` - the safety manual defines the requirements for safe usage or integration of the SW platform (or its individual modules)

> * :need:`Confirmation Reviews <wp__fdr_reports>` - on safety plan, safety package and safety analyses, according to ISO 26262 requirements

Reviewer 3: We modified this name intentionally, check with @aschemmel-tech

* :need:`Safety Package <wp__platform_safety_package>` - the safety package does not contain the safety argumentation. By this the S-CORE project ensures it does not take over liability for the SW platform (or its individual modules). But it enables the distributors to integrate the SW platform (or its individual modules) in their safety package.

Safety Management Tooling
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> For the safety planning and safety manual, `sphinx-needs <https://www.sphinx-needs.com/>`_ will be used for referencing.

Reviewer 2: we usually write something like "docs-as-code" tooling for this as defined in https://eclipse-score.github.io/process_description//main/process_areas/configuration_management/guidance/configuration_templates.html

> For the safety planning and safety manual, `sphinx-needs <https://www.sphinx-needs.com/>`_ will be used for referencing.

Author: Reworded to be tool agnostic.

> For the activities planning (who, when) we use `GitHub issues <https://github.com/features/issues>`_ and monitor these in GitHub projects.

Author: Reworded to be tool agnostic.

For the reporting (e.g. displaying the status of the work products) additional tooling is created.

> Guidance

Reviewer: Guidance is still a part of the concept description
